FIG. 3. Down-regulation of E-cadherin increases the migration of embryonic kidney cells and invasion of CC-RCC cells. (A) HEK293A cells were
transiently transfected with a plasmid encoding the scrambled shRNA or a cocktail of four E-cadherin-speciﬁc shRNAs. Equal amounts of the whole-cell
lysates were immunoprecipitated with an anti-E-cadherin antibody, resolved by SDS-PAGE, and immunoblotted with an anti-E-cadherin antibody. Equal
amounts of the remaining whole-cell lysates were resolved by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with an anti-(cid:10)-tubulin antibody. E-cadherin signal
intensities were quantiﬁed using a Kodak Image Station 2000R densitometer and normalized against the corresponding (cid:10)-tubulin signals; values are
indicated in the parentheses. (B) Wounds were created 48 h posttransfection with the indicated plasmids. Percent wound closure was determined by
measuring the migration of cells from the wound edge 25 h postwound scrape. Each wound measurement was taken in triplicate, and the experiment was
repeated three times. (C) Line graph representing early migration proﬁle, as indicated by percent wound closure, as measured in the experiment shown
in panel B, of HEK293A cells transfected with the indicated shRNA plasmids. (D) 786-VHL cells were transiently transfected with a plasmid encoding
the scrambled shRNA or a cocktail of four E-cadherin-speciﬁc shRNAs. Equal amounts of the whole-cell lysates were immunoprecipitated with an
anti-E-cadherin antibody, resolved by SDS-PAGE, and immunoblotted with an anti-E-cadherin antibody. Equal amounts of the remaining whole cell
lysates were resolved by SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with an anti-hnRNP antibody. E-cadherin signal intensities were quantiﬁed using a Kodak
Image Station 2000R densitometer and normalized against the corresponding hnRNP signals; results are given in parentheses. (E) 786-VHL cells were
transiently transfected with the indicated plasmids as shown in panel D. Cells were counted 72 h posttransfection, and 2.5 (cid:8) 104 cells were seeded into
BD Matrigel Invasion Chambers and incubated for 22 h. The invading cells were stained with 0.1% crystal violet, and images were captured under an
inverted light microscope. Cells were counted from photographs of the membrane, and each experiment was repeated twice. The relative change in
invasion was determined by counting the number of invading cells transfected with E-cadherin-speciﬁc shRNA and normalizing the value against the
number of invading cells transfected with the scrambled shRNA (arbitrarily set at 1.0). Anti-E-cad, anti-E-cadherin; IP, immunoprecipitation; IB,
immunoblot; Anti-Tub, anti-(cid:10)-tubulin; shE-cad, E-cadherin-speciﬁc shRNA; shScram, scrambled shRNA; T, time.
