FIG. 4. VHL regulation of E-cadherin is HIF mediated. (A) RCC4-VHL cells were maintained under normoxia (N; 21% O2) or hypoxia (H;
1% O2) for 16 h, lysed, resolved on SDS-PAGE, and immunoblotted with anti-HIF-2(cid:2), anti-E-cadherin, and anti-HA antibodies. (B) 786-O cells
stably expressing HA-VHL(WT), HA-VHL(C162F), or HA-VHL(L188V) were lysed, resolved on SDS-PAGE, and immunoblotted with the
indicated antibodies, where (cid:2)-tubulin served as an internal loading control. (C) 786-MOCK and 786-VHL cells infected with “empty” retrovirus
(786-VHL(cid:1)EMPTY) or retrovirus expressing constitutively stable and functional HIF-2(cid:2)(P531A) were lysed, resolved by SDS-PAGE, and
immunoblotted with the indicated antibodies, where (cid:2)-tubulin served as an internal loading control. Signal intensities were quantiﬁed using a Kodak
Image Station 2000R densitometer and normalized against the corresponding (cid:2)-tubulin signals; results are given in parentheses. Experiments were
performed three times with one representative experiment presented. (D) 786-O (VHL(cid:6)/(cid:6)) subclones stably expressing pRetroSUPER-empty or
pRetroSUPER-HIF2(cid:2) shRNA were lysed, and comparable amounts of whole-cell extracts were immunoprecipitated and immunoblotted with an
anti-E-cadherin antibody. Equal amounts of the whole-cell extracts were also resolved on SDS-PAGE and immunoblotted with anti-HIF-2(cid:2) and
anti-actin antibodies. Experiments were performed three times with one representative experiment presented. (E) Dual-luciferase assays were
performed in 786-MOCK and 786-VHL cells transfected with the ﬁreﬂy luciferase construct (E-cad prom-luc) driven by the human E-cadherin
promoter sequence. Cytomegalovirus-driven Renilla luciferase was used as an internal transfection control, and the ﬁreﬂy luciferase RLUs were
normalized against Renilla luciferase RLUs. Experiments and transfections were performed in triplicate with one representative experiment
presented. Error bars represent standard deviations. IP, immunoprecipitation; IB, immunoblot.
