FIG. 5. The specific DNA-binding activity of the dioxin receptor
is repressed in keratinocytes pretreated with TPA. (A and B) Kera-
tinocytes were treated for 1 h with vehicle alone (lanes 1 and 5), 50
nM TPA (lane 4), or 50 nM TCDF in the absence (lanes 2 and 6) or
presence (lane 3) of 50 nM TPA. Alternatively, the keratinocytes
were exposed to 50 nM TPA for 16 h prior to the addition of 50 nM
TCDF (lane 7). Nuclear extracts (EXT) were prepared and monitored
for dioxin receptor (A)- or USF (B)-dependent DNA-binding activi-
ties by electrophoretic gel mobility shift analysis. Oligonucleotide
competition experiments were performed in the presence of a 100-
fold excess of an unrelated sequence motif (lane 8) or the XRE
sequence motif (lane 9). The dioxin receptor-dependent protein-DNA
complex is indicated by an R. The asterisk indicates the complex
generated by a constitutive XRE-specific factor (57 and references
therein). F indicates the mobility of the unbound (free) probe. (C and
D) Whole-cell extracts were prepared from keratinocytes incubated
for 16 h in the absence (lanes 1 and 2) or the presence (lane 3) of 50
nM TPA prior to treatment with vehicle alone (lane 1) or 50 nM TCDF
(lanes 2 and 3) for 1 h. The whole-cell extracts were monitored for
dioxin receptor (C)- or USF (D)-dependent DNA-binding activities as
described above. (E) Immunoblot analysis of the dioxin receptor in
human keratinocytes. Total cellular protein (150 pug) from either
control cells (lanes 2 and 5) or cells treated for 16 h with 50 nM TPA
(lanes 3 and 6), was loaded in each lane. Note that the anti-dioxin
receptor antiserum (aDR, lanes 2 and 3) visualized comparable
amounts of receptor in both extracts, while no reactivity was seen
with a preimmune serum (PIS, lanes 5 and 6). The molecular mass
marker lanes are designated M; masses are in kilodaltons. (F) In vivo
phosphorylation of the dioxin receptor. The dioxin receptor (indicat-
ed by an R) was immunoprecipitated from lysates of mouse hepatoma
cells that had been metabolically labeled with 32Pi (lane 1). The
complex was abolished by preincubation of the anti-dioxin receptor
antiserum with 100 ng (lane 2) or 500 ng (lane 4) of the dioxin receptor
peptide, while the same amount of an unrelated peptide (GR) left the
complex unaltered (lanes 3 and 5).
