Fig. 1. Identification of in vivo produced CTFγ in human cells and mouse brain. (A) Membrane fractions of HEK 293 cells stably transfected with Swedish mutant
βAPP695 (swAPP) were analyzed by combined immunoprecipitation/immunoblotting with antibody 6687 to the C-terminus of βAPP. Three βAPP CTFs were
detected (CTFβ, CTFα and the ∼6 kDa CTFγ). The same βAPP CTFs including the ∼6 kDa CTFγ were also observed in mouse brain as well as in N2a cells
transiently transfected with swAPP. (B) The γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT inhibits CTFγ production. HEK 293 cells stably transfected with swAPP were treated with
the indicated concentrations of DAPT for 4 h. Upper and middle panel, membrane fractions were prepared and analyzed for βAPP CTFs as in (A). Increasing
concentrations of DAPT led to a build up of CTFβ and CTFα (upper panel) with a concomitant significant block of CTFγ generation (middle panel). Note that
exposure time for CTFβ and CTFα (upper panel) was shorter than that for CTFγ (middle panel). Lower panel, conditioned media were analyzed for secreted Aβ
by  combined  immunoprecipitation/immunoblotting  with  antibodies  3926/6E10.  Note  the  dose-dependent  reduction  of  Aβ  generation  by  DAPT  treatment.
(C) Quantitation of CTFγ and Aβ generation in the presence of γ-secretase inhibibitor DAPT. HEK 293 cells stably transfected with swAPP were treated with the
indicated concentrations of DAPT and analyzed for CTFγ and Aβ as in (B). Bars represent the mean ± SE of three independent experiments. Note that error bars
within the symbols are too small to be displayed. (D) CTFγ production is dependent on biologically active presenilins. Upper panel, membrane fractions from
control  cells  expressing  wild-type PS1  or  cells stably  expressing  PS1 D385N  were  analyzed  as  in  (A).  Expression  of  the  non-functional  PS1  D385N  variant
increases  CTFβ  and  CTFα  and  significantly  reduces  CTFγ  production.  Lower  panel,  conditioned  media  were  analyzed  for  secreted  Aβ  as  described  in  (B).
Expression of the non-functional PS1 D385N variant severely reduces Aβ production. (E) Reduced CTFγ production in the absence of PS1. Membranes from PS1+/+
or PS1–/– mouse embryonic fibroblasts transiently transfected with swAPP were analyzed for CTFγ as in (A).
