Fig. 2. In vitro generation of CTFγ. (A) Time-dependent in vitro production of CTFγ. Membrane preparations from HEK 293 cells stably transfected with swAPP
were incubated at 37°C for the indicated time points. The reaction mixes were then separated in a pellet fraction (P100; upper panel) and a soluble fraction (S100;
lower panel) by ultracentrifugation. These fractions were immunoblotted with antibody 6687. Note the selective accumulation of CTFγ in the S100 (lower panel)
fraction after 1–2 h incubation time. Small amounts of CTFγ were detected in the P100 fraction. (B) Two independent γ-secretase inhibitors (DAPT and CM256)
inhibit the in vitro production of CTFγ. Membrane preparations were incubated with (+) or without (–) 250 nM DAPT (left panel) or 50 µM CM256 (right panel)
at 37°C  for the indicated time. The reaction mixes  were then subjected  to  ultracentrifugation and  the S100 fractions were  analyzed  as  in (A). Note  that both
inhibitors significantly reduce CTFγ generation. (C) Quantitation of CTFγ generation in the presence of γ-secretase inhibitors. Membrane preparations were treated
with γ-secretase inhibitors as in (B). Bars represent the mean ± SE of three independent experiments. (D) The γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT inhibits the in vitro
production of CTFγ from membranes derived from N2a cells. Membrane preparations were incubated at 37°C for 1 h with (+) or without (–) 250 nM DAPT, and
CTFγ was analyzed as in (B). (E) In vitro generation of CTFγ depends on biologically active PSs. Membrane preparations derived from HEK 293 cells stably co-expressing
swAPP and wild-type PS1 or biologically inactive PS1 D385N were incubated in the presence (+) or absence (–) of 250 nM DAPT as in (B). After termination of
the  in  vitro  reactions,  CTFγ  was  identified  as  in  (B).  Note  the  inhibition  of  CTFγ  production  in  membrane  preparations  derived  from  cells  expressing  the
biologically inactive PS1 D385N mutation as well as the reduction of the remaining in vitro CTFγ production by the γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT. (F) Reduced
in vitro generation of CTFγ in the absence of PS1. Membrane preparations from PS1+/+ or PS1–/– mouse embryonic fibroblasts stably transfected with βAPP695 were
incubated  for 1 h at  37°C in  the  presence (+)  or  absence  (–) of 250  nM  DAPT,  and analyzed for CTFγ  as in (A).  Note  the inhibition of CTFγ  production  in
membrane preparations derived from PS1–/– cells as well as the further reduction of the remaining in vitro CTFγ production by the γ-secretase inhibitor DAPT.
