Figure 1. VEGF, VEGFR-2, and HIF-1(cid:1) expression in acute and chronic human lower-limb ischemia and skeletal muscle regeneration. a– h: Sections from patient
1 with acute limb ischemia because of thrombosis of prosthesis axillobifemoralis. Nonischemic rectus femoris muscle shows normal histology in VEGF (Santa
Cruz) (a), CD31 (b), VEGFR-2 (RDI) (c), and HIF-1(cid:1) (d) immunostainings. e: Ischemic tibialis anterior muscle shows a strong and mostly cytoplasmic VEGF
immunostaining (Santa Cruz) and interstitial edema. f: A high number of capillaries, thrombus formation in blood vessels consistent with acute ischemia
(arrowheads), and large vessels without visible media or adventitia layers (CD31). g: VEGFR-2 immunostaining on the cell membranes of ischemic skeletal
muscle cells (anti-VEGFR-2 from RDI) and HIF-1(cid:1) in nuclei of myocytes (arrowheads). i–l: In situ hybridization of chronically ischemic human skeletal muscle
using nonradioactive DIG-labeled riboprobes. i: VEGF anti-sense. Signal is detected around nuclei of a regenerating myofiber (arrowhead) and in atrophic
skeletal muscle cells (arrow). j: VEGF sense control. Arrow and arrowheads point to the same areas as in i. k: VEGFR-2 mRNA is detected in atrophic skeletal
myocytes (arrowhead) and on endothelium (arrow). l: VEGFR-2 sense control. Arrow and arrowheads point to the same areas as in k. m: Atrophic skeletal
myocytes are strongly positive for VEGFR-2 immunostaining (anti-VEGFR-2 from RDI). n: VEGF at the edges of skeletal muscle cells where regeneration starts
with satellite cell activation (arrowheads, anti-VEGF from Santa Cruz). o: In a regenerating myofiber with central nuclei (arrowheads) VEGF immunostaining
is cytoplasmic (anti-VEGF from Santa Cruz). In neighboring nonregenerating fibers with marginal nuclei VEGF is absent. p: HIF-1(cid:1)immunostaining demonstrates
significant HIF-1(cid:1) expression only in atrophic skeletal myocytes (arrowheads) but not in normal myocytes (arrow) in chronically ischemic muscle. Scale bars,
100 (cid:2)m (a–n, p); 50 (cid:2)m (o).
