Figure 3. In the rabbit model of hindlimb ischemia the complete removal of the femoral artery results in acute ischemia featuring necrosis in major muscles of
the thigh and strong VEGF expression. a: Internal iliac angiography of an ischemic rabbit hindlimb 6 weeks after operation shows that after the ligation of lateral
circumflex femoral (1) and deep femoral (2) arteries blood flow to the ischemic limb is dependent on collateral vessels originating from the internal iliac artery
(3). Re-entry sites for corkscrew collaterals are the caudal femoral and popliteal arteries (4). b: Representative transversal GdDTPA-BMA enhanced T2*-weighted
MRI of an ischemic rabbit thigh 1 week after excision of the femoral artery. Inner parts of the ischemic adductor (1) and quadriceps femoris (2) muscles are darker
than healthy muscles of the contralateral limb and they are surrounded by bright GdDTPA-BMA contrast suggesting severe ischemia and necrosis, whereas the
abductor muscles (3), which are supplied by collaterals from the internal iliac artery, are viable. Asterisk indicates the femur bone and the arrowhead the femoral
artery and vein of the healthy contralateral limb. c: MRI of the same rabbit thigh as in b 6 weeks after the operation. Ischemic adductor and quadriceps femoris
muscles show bright GdDTPA-BMA contrast demonstrating the extravasation of GdDTPA-BMA in these muscles. Arrowhead indicates a collateral artery. d–i:
Histological sections of ischemic rabbit skeletal muscles at different time points. d, f, and h: VEGF immunostaining (anti-VEGF from Santa Cruz). e and g:
Macrophage immunostaining (RAM11). i: Endothelial immunostaining (CD31). Three days after the onset of ischemia VEGF is diffusely expressed in skeletal
myocytes (d) and infiltrated leukocytes (e, arrowheads). f: Three weeks after the induction of ischemia VEGF is expressed in atrophic and regenerating
myofibers (arrowheads). g: Macrophages and fibrosis are present at this time point. h: Regeneration and VEGF expression have diminished 6 weeks after acute
ischemia, although some staining is still observed near the central nuclei of the regenerated myofibers (arrowheads). i: Increased capillary density co-localizes
with VEGF expression and regenerated myocytes. Scale bars, 100 (cid:2)m.
