Figure 2. Above: The structure of the human umbilical cord with a three-dimensional exploded diagram. The diagram was made by directly
tracing the outlines of the various features in the histological section, then shifting them along the tilted longitudinal axis. Scale Bar 5 5 mm.
Below: The human umbilical cord. (A–E): A parafﬁn embedded section stained with haematoxylin and eosin. (A): Complete cross-section of
the cord showing an outer amniotic epithelium and three vessels contained within Wharton’s jelly. The latter is more highly stained in the
perivascular zones due to an increase in both cells and matrix. The paucity of staining in those areas beyond the perivascular zones is, in part,
due to the presence of clefts [see (B–D)]. Maximum width (a-a) 5 1.8 cm. (B): Enlargement spanning regions 1 and 2 in (A) where the transi-
tion from tunica media of the umbilical vein to perivascular Wharton’s jelly is clearly seen, as is the transition from perivascular zone to the
remainder of Wharton’s jelly and the amniotic epithelium. The matrix of the subamniotic Wharton’s jelly is marginally denser than that of the
intermediate Wharton’s jelly, which separates it from the perivascular zone. pv, perivascular zone; sa, subamnion; i, intermediate Wharton’s
jelly; *, clefts. (C): From area 3 in (A): The amniotic epithelium and the subamniotic Wharton’s jelly (sometimes called the “cord lining”). The
cells have a stellate morphology. Takechi et al. [27] were the ﬁrst to report that cells in this subamniotic zone were longer and had more cyto-
plasmic processes than those in the perivascular zones. *, clefts. (D): From area 2 in (A), the intermediate Wharton’s jelly that contains sparse
cells, which are small and more rounded in shape, and matrix that surrounds many clefts. *, clefts. (E): From area 1 in (A), the perivascular
zone with denser matrix and numerous cells. The latter of varying morphologies, some elongated, some rounded, and others stellate. (F):
DAPI (40,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole) staining of a portion of cord including the vascular tunica media (dense blue structure below), Whar-
ton’s Jelly, and the amniotic epithelium (thin dense blue line above). DAPI staining is densest in the perivascular zone and decreases toward
the amniotic epithelium. White arrow, perivascular zone. Although the cell density in the amniotic epithelium is clear, there is no obvious
increase in cell density in the subamniotic zone compared to that of the iWJ. [Image courtesy of Shiva Hamidian Jahromi]. Scale Bars:
A 5 5 mm; B 5 500 mm; C–E 5 100 mm; F 5 200 mm. Abbreviation: WJ, Wharton’s jelly.
