HSCs in the Bone Marrow Are Positive for a Hypoxic Cell Marker. We
and others have previously shown that bone marrow SP cells, as
defined by their ability to efficiently efflux the Ho dye, are also
highly enriched for HSC activity (20–24). In this case Ho staining
is used in a very different manner to the in vivo dye perfusion study
described above as the cells are exposed ex vivo to a constant
concentration of Ho for a period of 90 min to allow for active dye
exclusion. To detect hypoxic cells in SP and non-SP cells derived
from bone marrow, we used the reductive 2-nitroimidazole com-
pound pimonidazole (PIM) (a chemical marker for hypoxia) which,
when administered in vivo, forms stable adducts in hypoxic regions
that can then be subsequently identified with an anti-PIM antibody.
We confirmed that this marker is indeed selective for hypoxic bone
marrow cells by the in vitro treatment of isolated SP and non-SP cells
with PIM (100 (cid:1)M) for 5 h. Positive staining with the anti-PIM
antibody was observed only under conditions of exposure to anoxia
(95% N2 with 5% CO2) (see SI Fig. 7) and therefore was not related
to hypoxia-independent differences in PIM adduct formation.
Because thymus has been reported to be an hypoxic organ (25), we
used thymus as a positive control in tandem with bone marrow
samples for the in vivo detection of hypoxia. PIM (120 mg/kg) was
injected i.p. and bone marrow and thymocytes were harvested after
3 h. Bone marrow cells were stained with Ho in vitro and SP and
non-SP cells were isolated by fluorescence-assisted cell sorting
(FACS). Thymocytes and sorted bone marrow populations were
then stained with anti-PIM antibody and analyzed for PIM binding
by flow cytometry. PIM binding was compared between saline-
injected controls and PIM-injected samples. As shown in SI Figs. 5
and 8A, the majority of thymocytes are both hypoperfused (given
the low intensity of Ho staining after dye injection) and are hypoxic
(given positive staining with the anti-PIM antibody). Microscopic
evaluation of thymic tissue showed PIM binding in areas of low Ho
staining (see SI Fig. 8B). These results confirm the overall hypoxic
state of thymic tissue as shown previously (25).
