Analysis of aldolase A and VEGF mRNA. EBs 8-9 days old
were preincubated at 20% or 1% oxygen prior to exposure for 4 and
14 h at the indicated oxygen concentration. (A) Quantitative Northern
blot analysis of aldolase A and VEGF mRNA. Each lane was loaded
with 10 jLg of total RNA isolated after stimulation. After electro-
phoresis and blotting, the membrane was hybridized to probes encod-
ing aldolase A, VEGF, and 3-actin. The signals for aldolase A and
VEGF were quantified by PhosphorImager analysis and corrected for
differences in loading and blotting by normalization to the signal
obtained with the 3-actin probe. The normalized values are indicated
below each lane. (B) Reverse transcriptase-mediated PCR analysis of
VEGF mRNA was performed with 1 jig of total RNA from EBs using
primers A and B. Samples (1 jLg) of total RNA isolated from kidney
(kid) and NIH 3T3 fibroblasts (3T3) were used as positive controls.
-RT, reverse transcriptase omitted; M, DNA migration of a 100-bp
ladder (Pharmacia). Numbers on right are cDNA product lengths in bp.
consumption (Vo2), thus representing the integral from r = 0
to r = R (see Materials and Methods). Within an EB, the
standard deviation was -10% of the mean value, indicating
similar Vio values throughout the EB. In Fig. 2B, the mean
oxygen consumption measured in 16 EBs is plotted versus their
respective volumes. As expected from the homogeneous Po2
gradients in EBs of different sizes (Fig. 2A), EBs with the
largest volume had the lowest oxygen consumption.
Oxygen-Dependent Regulation of Aldolase A and VEGF
mRNA. To analyze whether EBs were able to adapt to hypoxic
conditions by specifically upregulating oxygen-dependent
genes encoding glycolytic enzymes, we investigated modula-
tion of the ubiquitously expressed aldolase A. Total RNA was
isolated from 8-day-old EBs that were exposed either to
normoxia for 1 day followed by an additional hypoxic (1% 02)
incubation for a further 4 and 14 h or to hypoxia for 1 day
followed by an additional incubation at normoxic conditions
for 4 and 14 h. Northern blot analysis revealed an up to 3-fold
reversible hypoxic induction of aldolase A mRNA regardless
of which hypoxic induction protocol was performed (Fig. 3A).
This observation implies that EBs are metabolically active and
have the capability of upregulating glycolytic activity under
reduced oxygenation. Our results are in agreement with a
