Figure 2.
HIF target genes encode proteins involved in critical aspects of cancer progression. The list
of HIF-regulated genes (shown in red) is intended to be illustrative rather than
comprehensive. (A) HIF target genes (locus abbreviations in parentheses) that promote cell
immortalization, stem cell self-renewal, and autocrine growth and survival include those
encoding adrenomedullin (ADM), endothelin 1 (EDN1), erythropoietin (EPO), glucose-6-
phosphate isomerase (GPI), insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2), octamer binding protein 4
(OCT4), phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM), telomerase (TERT), transforming growth factor
α (TGFA), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). (B) HIF-1 target genes involved
in metabolic reprogramming include glucose transporter 1 and 3 (GLUT1, GLUT3),
hexokinase 1 and 2 (HK1, HK2), glycolytic enzymes aldolase A (ALDOA), enolase 1
(ENO1), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), phosphofructokinase L
(PFKL), phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1), pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), and lactate
dehydrogenase A (LDHA). The enzymatic activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) is
inhibited by PDH kinase 1 (PDK1), thereby blocking the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl
coenzyme A (AcCoA) for entry into the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Two members of
the BCL2 family of mitochondrial proteins (BNIP3, BNIP3L) trigger mitochondrial
selective autophagy. Lactate and hydrogen ion (H+) generated by glycolysis are effluxed
from the cell through the activity of the monocarboxylate transporter 4 (MCT4), sodium-
hydrogen exchanger 1 (NHE1), and carbonic anhydrase 9 (CAR9). HIF-1 may also regulate
the expression of the transketolase (TKT) and TKT-like 2 (TKTL2) enzymes of the non
oxidative arm of the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). (C) HIFs stimulate tumor
vascularization by activating transcription of the genes encoding VEGF, stromal-derived
factor 1 (SDF1), placental growth factor (PGF), platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGFB),
and angiopoietin 1 and 2 (ANGPT1, ANGPT2). (D) HIF target genes that promote epithelial
mesenchymal transition include inhibitor of differentiation 2 (ID2), snail 1 and 2 (SNAI1,
SNAI2), transcription factor 3 (TCF3), TGFA, vimentin (VIM), and zinc finger E-box-
binding homeobox 1 and 2 (ZEB1, ZEB2). (E) HIF target genes promoting invasion and
metastasis include those encoding autocrine motility factor (AMF; also known as GPI),
angiopoietin- like 4 (ANGPTL4), cathepsin C (CTSC), lysyl oxidase (LOX), LOX-like 2
and 4 (LOXL2, LOXL4), L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM), Met proto-oncogene/
hepatocyte growth factor receptor (MET), matrix metalloproteinase 2, 9, and 14 (MMP2,
MMP9, MMP14), and the urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (PLAUR).
