Figure 7. Tumor Cells Impose a Nutrient Restriction on T Cells that Dampens IFN-γ Production
(A) T cells were activated with anti-CD3/28 in media containing glucose (Glc) or galactose
(Gal), and PD-1 expression was measured.
(B) Activated T cells were cultured in media containing Glc and then differentially cultured
in either Glc or Gal (Glc→Gal) for 1 additional day. Cells cultured in Gal were then
recultured in Glc for 1 more day (Glc→Gal→Glc). IFN-γ expression was measured 5 days
postactivation. Frequencies of IFN-γ producing cells are shown, and plots are representative
of three independent experiments.
(C and D) The OCR over ECAR ratio (C) and PD-1 expression (D) of activated T cells
cultured in indicated media as described in (B) were assessed.
(E) Activated T cells were cultured in media containing Glc and then differentially cultured
in either Glc or Gal for 1 additional day (Glc→Gal (1d)) or 2 days (Glc→ Gal (2d)). Cells
cultured in Gal were then recultured in Glc for 1 more day (Glc→Gal→Glc). PD-1
expression was measured 5 days postactivation. Data are representative of at least two
independent experiments (A), (B), and (D), and data are presented as mean ± SEM (error
bar) from at least three independent experiments (C) and (E). *p = 0.0001.
(F and G) (F) T cells were activated with anti-CD3/28 under Th1 polarizing conditions for 3
days. Cells were subsequently incubated overnight with equal numbers of Th1 cells alone or
in a 50/50 mix of EL4 lymphoma cells: Th1 cells. Cells were restimulated (restim) and IFN-
γ production (F) and glucose concentration in the media (G) were measured. At the time of
restimulation, either nothing (no change), 10 mM glucose, or new media were added back to
the cells. Data (F) and (G) are representative of three independent experiments. Data (G) are
presented as mean ± SEM (error bar).
(H) The MFI of PD-1 expression on T cells from the indicated coculture ratios of EL-4
lymphoma cells:Th1 cells are shown.
Data are presented as mean ± SEM (error bar) from one experiment (n = 6). *p = 0.0423;
**p = 0.0001. See also Figure S6.
