FIG. 2. RNase protection assays showing effect of hypoxia and
of chemical agents on expression of endogenous PGK-1 and LDH-A
genes in tissue culture and on expression of transiently transfected
PGK-GH and LDH-GH fusion constructs. (A) Expression of the
endogenous human PGK-1 gene in Hep G2 cells after exposure for
16 hr to normoxia (20% 02; N), hypoxia (1% 02; H), hypoxia and 100
puM cycloheximide (H + CHX), normoxia and 50 ,uM cobaltous
chloride (N + Co), normoxia and 100 uM cyanide (N + CN), or
hypoxia and 100 ,uM cyanide (H + CN). The protected a-globin band
(a97 probe, a) is of comparable intensity in all lanes, indicating that
differences in PGK expression were not attributable to variability of
sample processing or gel loading. Marker, Msp I digest of pBR322.
(B) Expression ofendogenous mouse LDH-A gene in L cells. Details
are as in A. (C) Expression of PGK-GH construct after transient
transfection into Hep G2 cells. Details are as inA except that the c132
and GH probes were used to detect expression of the transfection
control and test plasmids, respectively. (D) Expression of LDH-GH
construct after transient transfection into Hep G2 cells. Details are
as in C.
nuclease treatment was similarly active (16.2 ± 2.8-fold
induction; n = 6), but deletions beyond this point led to
progressive reduction in the amplitude of hypoxic induction,
the most marked effect occuning with deletion of the region
between 44 bp and 24 bp 5' to the Spe I site (reduction from
8.0 + 0.3-fold to 1.2 ± 0.1-fold hypoxic induction; n = 4 for
each group). The functional importance of this region was
confirmed by finding that a PGK-OH fusion gene from which
18 bp within this region had been removed (Fig. 1A,
pdPGKGH) demonstrated vastly reduced hypoxic inducibil-
ity, the ratio of hypoxic to normoxic expression for P0KGH,
sPGKGH, and dPGKGH being 15.4, 1.3, and 1.7, respec-
tively (Fig. 3). In addition, these 18 bp may also play some
role in the control of basal expression, since normoxic
expression of the deletion construct was reduced by =50%.
Functional Analysis of the Oxygen-Regulated Element
within the PGK Enhancer. For analysis of the functional
characteristics of this isolated sequence, oligonucleotides
(Table 1) were cloned into a site 10 bp 5' to the TATA box of
the herpes simplex thymidine kinase promoter (pTKGH, Fig.
1C). The capacities of monomers and/or concatamers to
confer hypoxic inducibility are shown in Table 2. The 18-bp
element (P18) whose deletion abrogated hypoxic induction of
the PGK-GH construct was capable of conferring respon-
siveness to hypoxia when placed in either orientation. Con-
catamers operated more powerfully than monomers. Exten-
